.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH GREENBONE-NVT-SYNC 8 "January 2011" "The OpenVAS Project" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
greenbone-nvt-sync \- updates the OpenVAS NVTs from Greenbone Security Feed or Community Feed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B greenbone-nvt-sync 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B OpenVAS Scanner
performs several security checks. These are called Network Vulnerability Tests
(NVTs) and are mostly implemented in the programming language NASL. Some NVTs are
wrappers for external tools.
As new vulnerabilities are published every day, new NVTs appear in the
Greenbone Security Feed. This feed is commercial and requires a respective subscription key.
In case no subscription key is present, the update synchronisation will use the Community Feed instead.

.br
The script 
.B greenbone-nvt-sync
will fetch all new and updated security checks and install them at the proper
location. Once this is done it will send a signal to the OpenVAS Scanner, openvassd(8)
so that the new NVTs are loaded and considered for new security scans. If your installation
does not allow automatic restart, you need to restart the scanner manually.
Subsequent to the scanner, the script also tries to send a signal to the OpenVAS Manager
openvasmd(8) so that the information about the NVTs are also updated into the Manager database.

.SH SEE ALSO
For more information see:
.BR openvassd(8),
.BR openvasmd(8)
.br
			
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by
Jan-Oliver Wagner <jan-oliver.wagner@greenbone.net>.
.PP
The 
.B greenbone-nvt-sync
script was written by Greenbone Networks GmbH.
