.TH NESSUS 1 "February 2005" "The Nessus Project" "Users Manuals"
.SH NAME
nessus-check-signature \- A simple utility to check (or generate) the signature of plugins retrieved from www.nessus.org
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nessus-check-signature [-S] filename [signaturefile]
.P

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nessus-check-signature
is a simple utility used by 
.B nessus-update-plugins
to check the signatures of the Nessus plugins downloaded from 
www.nessus.org. When executed and provided both an archive and a
signaturefile it will verify if the file matches the signature 
and if the signature matches the 
.B nessus_org.pem
certificate.

It can also generate the signatures for the plugins distributed by
www.nessus.org but you will, obviously, need the private certificate
file to do so. You can, however, customise the code to use an
alternate certificate file and generate plugins distributions files for
third party servers.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -S
Sign the archive instead of checking the signature. 
.B nessus-check-signature
will check for the private certificate key
.B nessus_org.priv.pem
and will generate a \fB.sig\fR file with the file signature.

.SH EXAMPLE
To check the signature for all the plugins downloaded from the Nessus
servers use:

.B nessus-check-signature all-2.0.tar.gz all-2.0.sig

.SH EXIT VALUES
.B nessus-check-signature
will return with a 0 value if the signature matches and will return
with an error value (1) if the signature does not match or if any
other error is found.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR nessus-update-plugins (1), openvas-fetch (1)

.SH MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE NESSUS PROJECT
The canonical place where you will find more information
about the Nessus project is :

.RS
.UR
http://www.nessus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
nessus-check-signature is (C) 2004 Tenable Network Security
.PP
This manpage was written by Javier Fernandez-Sanguino for the Debian
distribution, and is distributed under the GPL.

