.TH OpenVAS 1 "December 2004" "The OpenVAS Project" "Users Manuals"
.SH NAME
openvas-fetch \- A simple utility to retrieve plugins from www.openvas.org
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openvas-fetch --plugins 
.P
.B openvas-fetch --plugins-md5
.P
.B openvas-fetch --register <code> 
.P
.B openvas-fetch --check
.P
.B openvas-fetch --url <url> <localfile> [<http_login> <http_password>]
.P

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B openvas-fetch
is a simple utility is used by 
.B openvas-update-plugins
to fetch the newest OpenVAS plugins from www.openvas.org and to register a OpenVAS installation with plugins.openvas.org. It can also be used to retrieve arbitrary files from third party servers.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "--register <code> "
Register the current OpenVAS installation to http://plugins.openvas.org. Registering entitles you to receive a complete feed of the newest OpenVAS plugins. To register, an
.B activation code
is required. Please see http://plugins.openvas.org for more details on how to get such a code.

.TP
.BI "--check "
Makes sure that openvas-fetch is properly configured to receive a direct plugin feed from plugins.openvas.org by attempting to login into the remote server with the username and password obtained with openvas-fetch --register.
Please see http://plugins.openvas.org for more details on how to get a direct plugin feed.

.TP
.BI "--plugins-md5"
Obtains the MD5 of the remote plugin archive. Depending if the user registered or not, the file will be fetched from www.openvas.org or plugins.openvas.org. A file named 'all-2.0.tar.gz.md5' will be created in the current working directory.

.TP
.B "--plugins"
Obtains the newest OpenVAS plugins from www.openvas.org or plugins.openvas.org, as well as their signature file. The files 'all-2.0.tar.gz' and 'all-2.0.tar.gz.sig' will be created in the current working directory.

.TP 
.B "--url <url> <localfile> [<http_login> <http_password>]
Retrieves the file located at <url> (ie: http://www.openvas.org/index.html) and stores in in <localfile>. An optional http login and passwords can be provided if the remote server requires Basic authentication.


.SH "PROXY SUPPORT"
.P
If you need to connect to the internet through a proxy, openvas-fetch can be configured to use one. Simply edit the file
.B /etc/openvas/openvas-fetch.rc
and add the following lines, changing the appropriate values where necessary :
.P
proxy=192.168.0.1
.P
proxy_port=3128
.P
proxy_username=renaud
.P
proxy_password=s3cr3t
.P



.SH "BUGS"

openvas-fetch will not retrieve files bigger than 40MB.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openvas-update-plugins (1)

.SH MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE OpenVAS PROJECT
The canonical place where you will find more information
about the OpenVAS project is :

.RS
.UR
http://www.openvas.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
openvas-fetch is (C) 2004 Tenable Network Security

